# 100 - Introduction

[Flask](https://palletsprojects.com/p/flask/) is a lightweight Python web framework with useful tools and features for creating web applications in Python. [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/) is an SQL toolkit that offers efficient and high-performing database access for relational databases. It supplies ways to interact with several database engines, such as SQLite, MySQL, and PostgreSQL, by providing access to the database’s SQL functionalities. This toolkit also gives you an Object Relational Mapper (ORM), which enables you to make queries and handle data using simple Python objects and methods. [Flask-SQLAlchemy](https://flask-sqlalchemy.palletsprojects.com/) is a Flask extension that makes using SQLAlchemy with Flask easier, providing tools and methods to interact with your database in your Flask applications.

Flask provides a way to build a small web application quickly with one Python file. However, a small application can grow into a large application with multiple database tables, hundreds of routes, and complex features. Writing the code for a large application in one file will quickly become messy and hard to manage. Flask allows you to organize your application’s code base by splitting each of the application’s major parts into specific directories and files for a better-organized application.

For example, in a social media application, you might have the routes for users in a file called ```routes.py``` inside a directory called ```users```, and you might then collect the database models for users inside a module called ```users.py``` inside a ```models``` directory. Then you can do the same for posts, followers, hashtags, questions, answers, ads, the marketplace, payments, and other features in your large social media application. If you want to edit some business logic into the payments code, you can change the database code for payments in a file located at ```mysocialapp/models/payment.py```, then change the business logic in a file located at ```mysocialapp/payments/routes.py```. Each part of the application will have its code isolated in different files and directories, effectively splitting the application into easy-to-manage components. This structure also helps familiarize new developers with your application so they know where to troubleshoot an issue or add a new feature.

Flask provides a feature called [*blueprints*](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.2.x/blueprints/) for making application components. In the prior example, you can use blueprints to structure your large social media application with different blueprints, such as a users’ blueprint, a blueprint for posts, one for followers, and so on for each feature.

In this tutorial, you’ll use Flask blueprints to structure a web application with three components: the main blueprint containing the home page and other main routes, a posts blueprint for managing blog posts, and a questions blueprint for questions and answers.
